docs/spec.md, before:

% Sofer - A Mobile Application for Etext Transcription 
% Michael McDermott
% January 31, 2015

In my time, I have transcribed a few etexts for Project Gutenberg, mostly in the
area of more obscure authors and topics that do not have convenient etexts
available. Moreso if texts are available neither as free downloads nor as paid
ebooks through the major sellers.

My time to sit at a PC and explicitly work on these texts has only gone down
with time. However, I find myself frequently fiddling with my phone and it is
seldom anything of worth. Why not take some of that time that I am doing nothing
of consequence while waiting and funneling it into transcribing etexts?

That is the fundamental goal of Sofer.

## Platform ##

My mobile devices are all Android, at the moment. A relatively recent phone and
a lower-end tablet. My primary platform will be Android, but I want to write the
application in such a way as creating iOS builds will be a matter of building
and testing.

Therefore, the long-term platform goal is to support all major smartphone and
tablet manufacturers.

## Overview ##

Generally speaking, I have found transcription to follow a workflow not unlike
the following:

![Etext Transcription Workflow](img/transcription-workflow.png)

Some of these steps may be optional. For example, it may be that no OCR engine
is available or that the sample was not workable with OCR.

## Screen Layouts ##

The mockups that follow are not pixel perfect. They are intended only as
wireframes to demonstrate basic functionality, layout and interaction. More
effective styling will be required in the finished project.

In the mockups that follow, a simple forbidden icon is used to indicate an
unspecified icon. That is to say, the icon's precise appearance is not dictated
in the mockup, but its presence is.

Due to the intrinsic difficulty in determining the precise device type being
used, the "tablet" view will always be displayed for landscape oriented devices
and the "phone" view will always be displayed for portrait oriented devices.

Throughout, the expectation is that the converted etext will be compiled in
Markdown. There are several reasons for this. First, components are common for
Markdown editors and the syntax is well-known. This makes it a prime candidated
right off the bat. The second reason is that Pandoc allows for ready conversion
of Markdown, both to other lightweight text-markup languages (like reStructured
Text, which is favored by Project Gutenberg) and to other, more sophisticated
destinations (like PDF and Word document).

### Main Screen / About Dialog ###

Upon starting the application, the main screen should be displayed. The last
transcription project should be loaded, if one already exists. The basic
workspace should have the following layout:

![Main Screen - Tablet View](img/main-screen-tablet.png)

The left-most pane should display the selected scanset (it should be possible to
have multiple scansets associated with a single text conversion; this is most
likely when one set of scans is less than ideal and is supplemented by a second
set of scans).

The right-hand pane should be a Markdown editor that displays the text as
currently provided by the user. Proper syntax-highlighting of the Markdown text
should be provided.

Finally, the top bar should provide menu options for various common operations
that the user may need to take.

The phone view of this same screen would have the following layout:

![Main Screen: Scan View - Phone View](img/main-screen-phone.png)

In both mockups, the items in the toolbar expand out to menus. In the latter
mockup, the Source, Text and About items are in an accordion view in order to
save space. Figures demonstrating the expansions of the other tabs are
demonstrated below.

![Main Screen: Text View - Phone View](img/main-screen-phone2.png)

Since the third and final accordion for the phone is a replacement for the About
dialog, both will be displayed below, in sequence.

![About Screen - Tablet View](img/about-screen-tablet.png)

The hyperlink in the dialog should navigate to
http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT. Any navigations that need to be added to
comply with the licenses of libraries used in development should be added here.
If it ever becomes necessary (and it would be preferrable for it not to), a
scrollbar will be considered acceptable.

![About Screen - Phone View](img/about-screen-phone.png)

### Project Operations ###

Project operations are those options that are exposed from the Project menu.

![Project Menu - Tablet View](img/project-menu-tablet.png)

![Project Menu - Phone View](img/project-menu-phone.png)

We will review each of these operations in turn.

#### Saving ####

Clicking the Save option should cause the project to be saved. The total format
of the project save format is not included in this document, but it is a
requirement that all artifacts of the project, including configuration, scans
and output texts should be saved a single file for simple portability.

![Save Confirm - Tablet View](img/save-confirm-tablet.png)

The save confirmation for the phone has a similar appearance.

![Save Confirm - Phone View](img/save-confirm-phone.png)

#### Creating a New Project ####

Fairly little is needed to create a new project. On the tablet version of the
workflow, it will all be done on a single screen:

![New Project - Tablet View](img/new-project-step1-tablet.png)

A project name is required. No specific length restrictions are intended, though
the device may impose a restriction.

Any form of recognizable text document (`*.txt` or `*.md`, for example) should
be provided for the starting text. This is expected to be a text file returned
by an OCR program. Since this is not needed (transcription can be entirely
in-app, without the aid of OCR), this field must be optional. If it is not
provided, a blank file should be added to the project in its place.

Scans are also not required. It would make little sense to start with no text
and no scans, but, since scans can be added after the fact, it is not required
to add any before starting.

For the tablet view, all that would be necessary would be to provide a project
name and click the Start Project button.

All of the actual restrictions are shared between the two versions. The only
difference to be aware of is that, where the tablet version has a single step,
the phone view shall have three: one for each of the steps.

TODO: Add the phone view here

#### Sharing Completed Text ####

There are not really any mockups to be added for this piece of functionality.
Rather than going through some sophisticated workflow, all this option should do
is extract the proofed text from the project file and attempt to share it
through the local systems sharing capability.

Where it goes and what it does are entirely up to the user's interaction with
the system component.

#### Quit ####

### Text Operations ###

Aside from the controls to be used on the text editor and the PDF viewer, the
text operations might be the most commonly used controls in the application.

The menu itself, for both phone and tablet views is displayed below:

![Text Menu - Tablet View](img/text-menu-tablet.png)

![Text Menu - Phone View](img/text-menu-phone.png)

We will address each of the features exposed by this menu in turn.

Commit message:

Finished first mockups for the project menu

docs/spec.md, after:

% Sofer - A Mobile Application for Etext Transcription 
% Michael McDermott
% January 31, 2015

In my time, I have transcribed a few etexts for Project Gutenberg, mostly in the
area of more obscure authors and topics that do not have convenient etexts
available. Moreso if texts are available neither as free downloads nor as paid
ebooks through the major sellers.

My time to sit at a PC and explicitly work on these texts has only gone down
with time. However, I find myself frequently fiddling with my phone and it is
seldom anything of worth. Why not take some of that time that I am doing nothing
of consequence while waiting and funneling it into transcribing etexts?

That is the fundamental goal of Sofer.

## Platform ##

My mobile devices are all Android, at the moment. A relatively recent phone and
a lower-end tablet. My primary platform will be Android, but I want to write the
application in such a way as creating iOS builds will be a matter of building
and testing.

Therefore, the long-term platform goal is to support all major smartphone and
tablet manufacturers.

## Overview ##

Generally speaking, I have found transcription to follow a workflow not unlike
the following:

![Etext Transcription Workflow](img/transcription-workflow.png)

Some of these steps may be optional. For example, it may be that no OCR engine
is available or that the sample was not workable with OCR.

## Screen Layouts ##

The mockups that follow are not pixel perfect. They are intended only as
wireframes to demonstrate basic functionality, layout and interaction. More
effective styling will be required in the finished project.

In the mockups that follow, a simple forbidden icon is used to indicate an
unspecified icon. That is to say, the icon's precise appearance is not dictated
in the mockup, but its presence is.

Due to the intrinsic difficulty in determining the precise device type being
used, the "tablet" view will always be displayed for landscape oriented devices
and the "phone" view will always be displayed for portrait oriented devices.

Throughout, the expectation is that the converted etext will be compiled in
Markdown. There are several reasons for this. First, components are common for
Markdown editors and the syntax is well-known. This makes it a prime candidated
right off the bat. The second reason is that Pandoc allows for ready conversion
of Markdown, both to other lightweight text-markup languages (like reStructured
Text, which is favored by Project Gutenberg) and to other, more sophisticated
destinations (like PDF and Word document).

### Main Screen / About Dialog ###

Upon starting the application, the main screen should be displayed. The last
transcription project should be loaded, if one already exists. The basic
workspace should have the following layout:

![Main Screen - Tablet View](img/main-screen-tablet.png)

The left-most pane should display the selected scanset (it should be possible to
have multiple scansets associated with a single text conversion; this is most
likely when one set of scans is less than ideal and is supplemented by a second
set of scans).

The right-hand pane should be a Markdown editor that displays the text as
currently provided by the user. Proper syntax-highlighting of the Markdown text
should be provided.

Finally, the top bar should provide menu options for various common operations
that the user may need to take.

The phone view of this same screen would have the following layout:

![Main Screen: Scan View - Phone View](img/main-screen-phone.png)

In both mockups, the items in the toolbar expand out to menus. In the latter
mockup, the Source, Text and About items are in an accordion view in order to
save space. Figures demonstrating the expansions of the other tabs are
demonstrated below.

![Main Screen: Text View - Phone View](img/main-screen-phone2.png)

Since the third and final accordion for the phone is a replacement for the About
dialog, both will be displayed below, in sequence.

![About Screen - Tablet View](img/about-screen-tablet.png)

The hyperlink in the dialog should navigate to
http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT. Any navigations that need to be added to
comply with the licenses of libraries used in development should be added here.
If it ever becomes necessary (and it would be preferrable for it not to), a
scrollbar will be considered acceptable.

![About Screen - Phone View](img/about-screen-phone.png)

### Project Operations ###

Project operations are those options that are exposed from the Project menu.

![Project Menu - Tablet View](img/project-menu-tablet.png)

![Project Menu - Phone View](img/project-menu-phone.png)

We will review each of these operations in turn.

#### Saving ####

Clicking the Save option should cause the project to be saved. The total format
of the project save format is not included in this document, but it is a
requirement that all artifacts of the project, including configuration, scans
and output texts should be saved a single file for simple portability.

![Save Confirm - Tablet View](img/save-confirm-tablet.png)

The save confirmation for the phone has a similar appearance.

![Save Confirm - Phone View](img/save-confirm-phone.png)

#### Creating a New Project ####

Fairly little is needed to create a new project. On the tablet version of the
workflow, it will all be done on a single screen:

![New Project - Tablet View](img/new-project-step1-tablet.png)

A project name is required. No specific length restrictions are intended, though
the device may impose a restriction.

Any form of recognizable text document (`*.txt` or `*.md`, for example) should
be provided for the starting text. This is expected to be a text file returned
by an OCR program. Since this is not needed (transcription can be entirely
in-app, without the aid of OCR), this field must be optional. If it is not
provided, a blank file should be added to the project in its place.

Scans are also not required. It would make little sense to start with no text
and no scans, but, since scans can be added after the fact, it is not required
to add any before starting.

For the tablet view, all that would be necessary would be to provide a project
name and click the Start Project button.

All of the actual restrictions are shared between the two versions. The only
difference to be aware of is that, where the tablet version has a single step,
the phone view shall have three: one for each of the steps.

![New Project: Step 1 - Phone View](img/new-project-step1-phone.png)

![New Project: Step 2 - Phone View](img/new-project-step2-phone.png)

![New Project: Step 3 - Phone View](img/new-project-step3-phone.png)

#### Sharing Completed Text ####

There are not really any mockups to be added for this piece of functionality.
Rather than going through some sophisticated workflow, all this option should do
is extract the proofed text from the project file and attempt to share it
through the local systems sharing capability.

Where it goes and what it does are entirely up to the user's interaction with
the system component.

#### Quit ####

The quit option should terminate the application and return the user to the main
operating system.

If a project is in progress and has had changes made, a prompt should be
displayed asking whether the project ought to be saved first.

### Text Operations ###

Aside from the controls to be used on the text editor and the PDF viewer, the
text operations might be the most commonly used controls in the application.

The menu itself, for both phone and tablet views is displayed below:

![Text Menu - Tablet View](img/text-menu-tablet.png)

![Text Menu - Phone View](img/text-menu-phone.png)

We will address each of the features exposed by this menu in turn.
